JSON WEB TOKENS

	In Authentication, session managements and in mechanisms that control access, JWTs are commly implemented. When improperly and insecurely used, they can have devasting impact to a website along with its users. A JSON Web TOken can be defeined as a standardized format for sending  cryptographically signed JSON data (algorithm agreed to use by systems communicating) 

	All the data that is required by a server, is stored within the JWT token and on the client-side. For applications that require a user to interact with many back-ends this is a benefit as interaction is smooth. 

	JWTs specification is limited but the specification is an extension of JWS - JSON Web Signatures and JWE - JSON Web Encryption (where a an additional step of encryption is applied to a token.) 

	A JWT attack involves a modified JWT being sent to a server with the aim of bypassing authentication and access controls; impersonating another legitimate user. This attack occurs due to the improper handling of JWT in an application. Due to the specifications that are aimed at JWTs being flexible, a developer is able to choose many of the implementation details for themselves which can result in vulnerabilities being introduced even when “secure” libraries are used. 

	When the signature of the JWT is not correcly verfified, the token can be modified to change the values of data being passed. If it is possible to brute-force, guess the servers secret key or if it is leaked in some wat, then regardless of the robust verifying mechanisms in place an attacker is capable of generating a valid signature for any token which will compromise the entire mechanism.  



					> JWT FORMAT
							
						A JWT is made up of the below 3 parts and each part is separated by a dot.
						
							- Header
									|__ a base64 url encoded JSON object literal that has metadata (information that desribes other data) concerning the token. It can contain the key for the algorithm used to sign along with the token type. 
								
							- Payload
									|__ a base64 url-encoded JSON object literal and carries information about a user. 
									|__ information stored is called claims and can be of the below types 
											+ Reserved claims : predefined and not mandatory claims but are recommended to use as they can help to judge the authenticity of a token. Examples are iss (issuer), exp (expiry date), aud (audience).  Full list > https://auth0.com/docs/secure/tokens/json-web-tokens/json-web-token-claims
											
											+ Public claims : defined by the users of the JWTs. 
											
											+ Private claims : custom claims that involved parties have agreed to use. 
									
							- Signature
									|__ determines the security of the token. Anybody with access to the token can read / modify the token. Its purpose is to validate that the information in the header and payload is the same information that was sent (from the authorization server ). 
									
									|__ the signature is generated by hashing the header & the payload. (some cases encrypt the hash for added security). 
									
									|__ Changing one byte of the header or payload results in a different hash resulting in different signature.  
									
									|__ A secret signing key is also required so that a server knows that none of the data has been tampered with. Without this key, it should not be possible to generate a correct signature for a given header / payload. 
